# Overview

### Background 

This is a short and sweet program that I decided to write in Python in order to get back into the swing of software engineering. Building it has been a rewarding and fun exercise, plus it has reminded me about the power and ease of use of this great language and tool. 

### What
This bit of software is a simple stripped down version of a music player or music manager:

### How
It contains the ability to read and write from a library of music (saved as a local csv) while playing those songs by index in different orders. It can shuffle, play a favorite song, or just play a song by selection. 

It works around a user profile (class) which has its data saved and read from another local csv file. The user profile contains a unique login ID that is generated by the program, a name, a favorite song variable, and a favorite genre label. The program works around this class and each time the program fires up the person who logged in becomes the current user.

From a high level view of what's happening here the program has a menu with multiple options for a user to go through. It will follow through on a command, and uses recursion to return to the menu until the user decides he or she wishes to be done. It works quickly and has decent error handeling. 

### Why 

My purpose in writing this software again was to relearn some python syntax and make something fun and interesting to engage my attention. Furthermore I love Spotify and Apple Music and wanted to try my hand at some functionality you would normally find in those programs. Overall it was just a pet project to help me grow, but it's not done yet and I'll keep building on it. 

## Demo Video

[My Software Demo Video](https://youtu.be/z01qEF4gCxU)

# Development Environment

> Pandas for DS
Playsound Library
Random character generator

> Python 3.7
Microsoft™ Visual Studio Code

# Useful Websites

>[Random Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html)
 [Playsound Documentation](https://pypi.org/project/playsound/)
 [Pandas Documentation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/index.html)

# Future Work

* Display album art.
* Print lyrics in a verse, line, sequence.
* Search for song be genre or artist name. (SQL)
* Add a song to library. (SQL)
* Save new and edit existing user data. (SQL)
* Edit and update a user. (SQL)
* Album art, lyrics, song info? Consider data types in SQL. (SQL)
* Delete or remove songs or users. (SQL)